Let's imagine the perfect assessor's office.
Picture a village of appraisers who know how to inspect a property, how to consult the property owner, and run data analytics.
These appraisers know each other, constantly have conversations about appraisal, and help each other with observations and reports.
They make sure that every property is fully appraised every year.
When an appraiser goes to inspect a property, it is received by the property owner and they have a cup of tea together.
The property owner shares everything they know about the property, including income streams and rent.
Everything is covered. Renovations, damages, permits, land use.
The property owner also shares about their persona. Including information about where they live, if they are veterans, if they're disabled, if they are in need.
And they also discuss concerns of the property owner, like rising taxation.

They finish their cup of tea and the appraiser starts the inspection.
He goes through every room with his golf ball, his stick and his hands.
With as much detail as the best and most energetic inspectors.
As he goes back to the village, he is already thinking about the possible price of the property. He knows the library from top to bottom and can already guess where this property lands.
As he enters the village, he is greeted by a consortium of appraisers, where they get together and have freedom to discuss and comment on the subject property and the inspection approach.
Then the appraiser goes to the library and reads the whole of it again, noting recent changes and updating what he knows about it.

Next is to deep study the property.
The objective is to calculate market value.
Market value is the combination of all possible buyers and the prices they are willing and able to pay for the property.
This market value refers to the condition and income streams of the property. 
Because buyers look to make profit or live comfortabily.
Income streams including any business that you are running in the property or any subdivision that you are allowing others to use.
Conditions including lot size and construction ammenities.
The appraiser also looks at neighbors in various levels of abstraction.
Including immediate neighbors, neighborhood, zip, commune, city, state, country, and even world.
Understanding the conditions surrounding the subject property.
The deep study envigors the appraiser to appraise.

The appraiser also has to calculate the amount of taxes that the property owner has to pay.
After going through all of the regulations and laws that define who gets reductions.
Regulations and laws that he has helped shape.
He publishes everything. Including reports on the property, scripts to generate the calculations, natural language logic, and any other comments that he has on the appraisal.
Updating the property records and including the new information he has calculated back into the library.
The tax roll is two columns. A compendium of assessment values and taxation values created by these appraisers.

Property owners can appeal for abatements year-round.
And they are attended as soon as possible with no preference.
The property owner goes into the village of appraisers. And is attended by a random village appraiser.
The property owner exposes their case. They can also be represented.
The random appraiser goes back into the library and has discussion with the consortium of appraisers. 
Together, they evaluate the argument of the property owner and decide whether to give the abatement or not.
They send a letter with the results and immediately make library changes if necessary.
The property owner pays the updated amount in the next billing cycle.
